[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> They say hindsight is 20/20.
Looking back now,
it all adds up.
But I could never have
predicted it back then--
a life of immersing myself
into worlds only to feel
suffocated by the labels,
boxes, and other people's plans
for me.
And the only way forward
was to break free.
On March 8, International
Women's Day and the Day
of Nonconformity, I
came into the world,
entering a British
working class community.
Mom was all about
focus and discipline
and worked hard to
accomplish our goals.
Dad, on the other hand,
was all about quick fixes
and ran away from any
real responsibility.
Beyond the roles of
goodie and baddie,
behind the conflict and
dramas, I seen the pain
and suffering that hung
heavy on innocent souls.
Struggle and survival were
the themes at the time.
My life experiences led
me to studying and working
in criminal psychology.
Sometimes we can feel like we
are doing good in the world
but feel unhappy
within ourselves.
Nervous but determined, I left.
I don't know what I was seeking,
but something that would feel
like more.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I stumbled upon a new world,
one of access and privileges
surrounded by fame and fortune.
Moments of happiness
complemented
by external
validation, my 20s were
filled with having as
much fun as possible.
But as time went on, I saw that
beneath the shinier surface,
behind the more fabulous
roles and higher end dramas,
there was just as much pain
and suffering as there was
in the world I had left behind.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Sometimes we chase an
idol, an image, a fantasy,
thinking it will make us
complete, happy, and whole.
But it cannot.
The exciting becomes boring.
The new becomes old.
And change is the one
thing we can count on.
I still didn't know
exactly what I was seeking,
but it had to be
something deeper.
>> In my early 20s, I traveled
a good part of the world.
I hitchhiked around a
good part of the world.
And I thought I was
just adventurous,
wanting to see and do
something different.
And it was after a good number
of years the realization came
that I was actually searching
for whether you want to call it
God, or self, or whatever.
And so I think all of
us, without exception,
is on a pilgrimage.
>> The uniqueness of the human
experience within the context
of life in general, life in a
larger sense, in our existence,
we experience a
very physical world.
And we experience a
world that we often
see through our emotions.
And experiences that
we have emotionally
sort of give the
context or the texture
to the experience of life.
It's not just dry.
It's not just empirical.
It's a feeling and
experience that we have.
>> When I was a child, I
read for the first time "The
Neverending Story."
In that book, there's
this child, Atreyu.
He's being told that he
needs to complete some tasks.
Complete the first,
complete the second.
And as a child, I remember
I was thinking, what's
going to happen now, right?
Is he going to fight dragons?
What is going to happen now?
And then he's being told that
he needs to walk in this desert,
and he needs to face himself
and see himself in a mirror.
And as a child, I
was so disappointed.
Like, what's going on here?
Where's the action?
Only now as an adult I realize
how ingenious that task was.
Because I cannot think of a more
difficult and challenging task
than seeing ourselves
truly, truly as we are.
That's something we all avoid.
Without the masks,
without the gaze,
without the interpretations.
Really, truly see
what we are and who
we are, and work with that.
And that's the
kind of invitation
for psychospiritual journey.
>> When we start on the journey,
we think that it is just going
to be about peace
and love and light.
But the small print
says this means
that you're ready
to deal with perhaps
those things in you that
are a little less than true.
It's almost like working on
three levels in the sense
that you are in the present
through the meditation,
cleaning up the past.
It's almost automatic.
And then it's almost
like a time warp.
You're still in the
present, but you're also
contributing to the future.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> As I delved into
my inner world,
I had to face my own
angels and demons.
It took many meditations,
workshops, and retreats.
Integrating the fragmented
parts of myself,
letting go of mental
constructs and my judgment
on myself and others.
I had to let go of the
guilt of never sticking
to anyone or anything, the
guilt that came with following
my own path and
of not having been
able or willing to play the
role the world had asked of me.
Sometimes we feel
like we are dying.
But actually, we
are being born anew.
I was so curious about
what I was discovering.
I began to speak with people
who seemed to be ahead of me
in the game.
Being exposed to the variety of
understandings and perspectives
helped me to make sense of
what I was experiencing.
Within the tarot,
I see all of life.
It mirrors the shapeshifting
nature of energy,
its interplay with itself,
and how the sum of the parts
make up the whole.
Within it, I see the synthesis
between the temporary
and the permanent, the dance
of the mental, emotional,
spiritual, and
physical, and how it all
works together in service to
the awakening of the true self.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
As I worked with people on
their integration expression,
I realized I wanted to step
more into my humanness again.
Because I am both the
spiritual and physical.
To know of wholeness
is one thing,
but to live wholeness in
this world is another.
Sometimes we feel a calling and
find the courage to follow it.
But that doesn't mean
it's going to be easy.
Being present to life,
maintaining priorities
and values, and participating
in the 21st century
with all its advancements is
not for the feint of heart.
>> First and foremost, I would
say all of these technologies
have put phenomenal power into
the hands of everyday people.
So the vast amounts
of information
that is now available
where you can look up just
about anything.
Something that in the past
we might have had to go
to a library, look up
in an encyclopedia ,
talk to a researcher.
And all of this is
just one quick snapshot
we carry literally in
the palms of our hands.
It enables us to live
dissociated from ourselves.
So if I take out my phone at
every moment where I sit down
and nothing's happening,
I disengage from myself.
Just to clarify, I have
nothing against laptops
or mobile phones or
movies or music or emails.
I love them all.
And they're all part of my life.
And I'm happy they're
part of my life.
All I'm saying is
that it has to be
balanced with a
little bit of I'm
just sitting here with myself.
What's happening inside
is signaling to us
so much information,
valuable insights
to do with how we feel.
What's right for us?
How should we proceed with this
person, with that opportunity?
So much precious information.
And instead, we're
somewhere else.
>> Do I believe that technology
can help make people better?
Sure, like, I can stay in
touch with people here in Miami
almost in the same way I can
when they live a mile away.
It's weird.
You text, you phone,
you can Skype.
I can connect with anybody.
So that's wonderful.
>> And sure, these devices also
call for attention all the time
with the rings and the beeps.
And because there's so much
information and entertainment
available, it can distract us.
But that is not the
fault of the technology.
Those technologies are inert.
They just sit there.
It is our own inability
to regulate ourselves.
Our relationship with
technology is what we
need to shape as we go forward.
>> Everything is
about relationship--
to ourselves, one another,
the natural world,
and the collectively
created world.
As I've been exposed
more and more
to the current culture,
news, and media,
I feel deeply saddened.
Knowing we only get to
experience who we truly
are through relationship,
I wish we would
reevaluate our priorities.
Having felt and understood
the interconnected nature
of us all and the
sacredness of all of life,
the way we choose to live as
a collective feels insane.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Not turning a blind
eye to the condition
of our collective
world and not falling
into the complain and blame
game has been challenging.
>> There is a side that's
definitely degenerated,
and it's getting lower
and lower in vibration.
We can see it.
It's almost becoming the norm
to be nasty and rude and unkind
to one another.
Because everyone is picking
up this vibration that's
in the media, it's in the
atmosphere, it's in people.
>> How do we be happy in
a world which is not easy?
And how do we enter
into relationships
with people that
will often hurt us?
And how do we
maintain our center
in a world which doesn't
respect our center?
So there is really no
way to be in this world
without some forgiveness.
Human beings have been doing
a long experiment, which
I think the evidence is
pretty strong that dealing
with things that you don't like
and making an enemy out of them
or being hostile doesn't
lead to good outcomes.
But we keep on trying.
We keep on trying to hate the
people who disagree with us.
We keep on trying to make people
who see things differently
than we do wrong.
We keep on trying,
and it doesn't work.
>> The thought or the feeling
of superiority and inferiority,
it pervades everything, whether
it's in a classroom or it's one
race and another, or a
religion and another.
Everyone wanting to see who is
going to have the control here.
>> Well, I think there's a big
problem with our culture that
we are richer but not happier.
I think it's because we've
got the wrong values.
We've given too much
priority to becoming rich.
Too much perhaps
even more to being
successful in some
sense, being at the top
of some tree or other.
One person goes up,
somebody goes down.
If everybody is trying to climb,
and tries even harder to climb,
it's impossible for the
group to get any higher.
So it's a zero sum
game, in the jargon.
It's not a formula for progress.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I have found great comfort
and understanding in my inner
world.
Here, I know peace, love,
joy, wisdom, and balance.
I feel healed and whole within.
But my work is not yet complete.
Now I want to live it.
As much as I love
my time alone, I
know life is to be shared in
order to be truly experienced.
Self-satisfaction
is no longer enough.
We are one mind, one
body, one spirit,
simply having an experience
of individuation.
I wish we not only wake up to
this, but start living like it.
I imagine a world where our
oneness and our individuality
is honored, a world of beauty
through variety instead
of fighting from duality, a
world where we live together
harmoniously and joyfully.
There is nothing to reject,
only things to lovingly embrace
and transform.
Because everything is energy.
And life is one
big cosmic dance.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
The difference between
baggage and experience
is how one carries it.
Baggage hinders one's
character, while experience
builds one's character.
To be present to
life here and now,
we need a clear
heart and mind that
are aligned and as
light as a feather.
And only from this place can we
truly create a better future.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Everything we think,
say, and do matters.
None of us can escape that.
Change is happening.
And it feels like the time
to join in is right now.
>> This is everyone's
work right now.
This isn't one person's
responsibility.
>> Well, first of all, for me,
it starts with always making
more and more efforts
to love people.
And that requires
dropping my judgment.
Because judgment will be
blocking whatever love
I could have.
So there's so many
differences in belief
and so many differences
in the way people
are approaching things.
And so I've had to learn to be
less judgmental about all that
and allow people to
have their beliefs,
to try to see more of the
essence of what they are rather
than the externalization
of what they are.
I think also, the highest
sort of frequency in the love
spectrum would be compassion.
And that would be a
place where you really
do feel the needs of others.
And you do see others
through that lens.
>> When it's the time
for the chick to emerge,
then the shell breaks.
And so I think that's
happening with humanity too,
that it's like there's a tacit
agreement between the majority
that things have to
change, that there
has to be something different.
And I want to be a part of that.
>> Science is now demonstrating
the value of the positive
emotions-- kindness,
forgiveness, compassion,
gratitude--
the value of meditation.
These are not just limited to
spiritual religious practices.
But science is
demonstrating their impact
on physical and
emotional well-being.
That's profound.
>> Today, mindfulness is the
most popular intervention we
have in psychology with
thousands of new papers
published every year, with
hundreds of new interventions
and applications, in medicine,
in education, in organizations.
>> Most important to me right
now in the external work that I
do is facilitating a movement
of adding heart in the world,
an Add Heart Movement to where,
without it being spiritual,
without it being
somebody's system.
Just in general the
qualities of the heart being
added into decisions,
activities--
whether it be professional
activities, or family
activities, or whatever they do.
The relationship between us
all is to add more heart to it.
>> We have almost a million
students now meditating 24/7
around the clock, a
million vibrational beings.
That belief changes
the inevitable.
Like a pendulum,
you pull it back,
it will keep going forward.
So whatever people are trying to
do to stop the progress of time
or to pull us back
into an old age,
it'll be impossible for
them to stop progress.
So either decide to be on
the side of the pullback
agents or the forward
thrust agents,
the ones who are only into
truth and divinity and grace.
Because that's the future.
And no one's going to
be able to stop it,
not a single human being.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> There are only two options.
Either we are
projecting our fears,
or we are extending love.
As I continue on the journey of
living from love and not fear,
living from my own heart and not
the expectations of the world,
I know my freedom begins within.
The cycles of life and
the walls we move in
are temporary experiences.
And with that knowing, I embrace
endings as new beginnings.
The path forward is
uncertain, but it's exciting.
And I know all my strength is in
the anchor I have built within.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> We cannot transcend
that which we don't know.
We cannot transcend that
which we don't know.
How can I move?
How can I experience
something transpersonal?
my connection
to all that is around me if
my consciousness is so deeply
attached to my personal self?
>> It was human consciousness
that took it out of order
in the first place.
And so the onus is on
us, now with a divinity
of consciousness, to bring it
back to its original state.
And so we'll be humans
expressing ourself.
But there will be
no contradictions.
There will be no duality.
We will be living as we were
intended-- perfect creation.
>> And it's a special time
in the history of the world
It's why we're here now.
And so therefore, it's even more
sacred that we preserve life,
and that we preserve the life
of others, and of the planet
itself, and every living
system on the planet.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I think that life inherently
is to express oneself.
You just have to
be, and the doing
will automatically follow.
[MUSIC PLAYING]